hi I'm Babel fish five welcome to
another episode of the hungry hammock
hanger the show that helps you to expand
your backpacking menu without breaking
your bank today we're going to do two
things we're going to do lentils and
rice with caramelized onions and we're
gonna do a little trail cheesecake the
lentils and rice are a great meal to
carry with you with the savory aspects
of it and the sweet onions that you're
going to put into it it is a fantastic
meal and it is filling in the field and
healthy as well let's get to cooking
shall we our ingredients are one cup of
lentils one cup of basmati or jasmine
rice one can of coke one can of diced
tomatoes two onions one half of the
onion is chopped and the other onion and
a half is cut into slices that are half
moons three cloves of garlic chopped 1
tablespoon of cumin ground cumin fresh
if you've got it and one teaspoon of
ground coriander fresh if you've got it
and 32 ounces of vegetable stock take
your sliced onions and put them in a pan
over high heat make sure they're even
for your can of coke inside your pan and
let it simmer this takes about a half
hour once your coat gets all the way
evaporated the onions will caramelize
and what you will end up with is very
caramelized sweet onions take a little
olive oil into it put it into a Dutch
oven take your half of chopped onion and
put it in a let them sweat for a couple
of minutes take and put your lentils in
and as well as your rice give that a
good stir
take your tablespoon of ground cumin and
put it in as well as your teaspoon of
coriander but it in put your can of
diced tomatoes in give everything a good
stir put your 4 cups of vegetable broth
in give it all and a tablespoon of salt
give it all a good stir and put your lid
on and let it simmer over medium high
heat give it a good stir every now and
then after about 15 minutes add your
chopped garlic and let it cook for
another five minutes
after your rice and lentils are tender
take your caramelized onions and put
them in make sure to mix them very
thoroughly throughout the mix you want
everything to be even throughout the
whole mix on this time to dehydrate I
like 1 cup servings I usually put 2 cups
on each tray spread them out evenly but
keep them separated that makes it easier
for me to package the individual
servings for this recipe you'll get 7 1
cup servings since there's no meat in
this recipe you dehydrate this is 135
degrees you can dehydrate this in your
stove just as easy about 12 to 14 hours
later your dehydration will be done the
lentils and rice and onions will be very
dry and brittle it will snap very easily
another method of vacuum packing this is
a double bag method take a 1/4 block bag
but your serving in it then take a paper
towel and fold it into thirds put it
along the seal of your your ziploc bag
this helps to keep the seal of the
ziplock bag from getting closed too soon
during the vacuum packing this will give
you a very tight seal and make the make
the alleles and onions and rice last a
whole lot longer let's get started on
rehydrating our lentils and rice with
caramelized onions
once your water reaches a boil all I
have to do is pour it in sure water gets
to be about a half-inch over put it in
your 2z or your freezer bag and wait
about 20 minutes this will cook just as
well in a freezer bag then then in a pot
with a koozie so this is what your
lentils and rice looks like after it's
been rehydrated and I can tell you this
tastes just as good today as it did
yesterday when it first got finished
cooking so now that we're done with our
littles and rice I guess it's time to do
the cheesecake on we'll need enough
powdered milk to make 4 cups or one
quart of milk
you'll also need one box of cheesecake
flavor jell-o instant pudding make sure
it's the instant kind that all it
requires is cold milk and a little
mixing and some white time to have it
set up take a container that you can
seal really well preferably for three
cups put in your pudding mix as well as
your powdered milk mix seal your
container and give it a really good
shake take your time on this you want
everything mixed really really well once
that's done take 3/4 of a cup of your
mix and put it into a one core clock bag
you'll get two servings out of this
doing your cheesecake is easy you don't
even have to boil water on this one
take the mix that you pre-prepared
pour in one cup of water if your bag up
and show it a little want to make sure
this gets good and shook up and mixed
really well take you a couple of minutes
to do this
once you're done shaking you want let
this sit for about five minutes and
during that five minutes you want to
take four graham crackers that you've
got in a ziploc bag and you want to
pulverize them so go ahead and work out
some frustrations em you Tom Cruise
we're stealing all my good rolls damn
you feel better now very cathartic okay
after about five minutes you're putting
a little start to thickened up a little
bit what you want to do is take your now
pulverized frame cracker crumbs and just
kind of sprinkle them on the top of it
zip it back up and then wait for it just
wait for the Cheesecake flavoured
putting the set and that will take
probably I don't know another five to
ten minutes that's going to depend on
the weather and how hot or how cold it
is and once your cheesecake is set up or
your foe cheat your trail cheesecake
anyway looks kind of like that we've
just seen how to do two recipes both
were very easy one of them didn't even
require us to boil water
they're both flavorful they're both easy
to pack in and they're both cheap to do
it's very easy to die cook and dehydrate
your own meals for backpacking don't be
afraid of it it's easy it's tasty and
then it gives you a lot more choices if
you liked this video please give me a
positive rating the comments are always
welcome thanks for watching and we'll
look forward to seeing you on the trail